So you want to contribute to the Sapphire's project? Nice, but you have some rules to follow in order to preserve the project pattern and organization.

First, we encourage you to read the wiki of the project, to better understand the workflow and the project goals.

When you are ready continue reading this file.

## Contribution policy

As you can notice we use MIT license in the project, this means you can modify and distribute this code freely on the web, for commercial and non-commercial ends.

The only thing we ask is to maintain copyright and references to the original license.

Also, we have an open contribution policy. So when your pull request gets accepted your name and GitHub username will be public in the README page, under the Contributors section.

## Contribution technologies

You should know that we assume you have experience with a list of technologies before continuing:

* CoffeeScript development, all Sapphire's code is written in CoffeeScript;
* Mocha testing, we use Mocha to test the code directly in CoffeeScript;
* Codo for documentation, we use Codo that outputs documentation directly to HTML from the CoffeeScript files;
* Grunt for build the project;
* Code coverage, you should be able to understand a code coverage report like the one generated by `grunt coverage`;
* A little of Microsoft SQL Server knowledge.

## Contribution workflow

To keep the project easy to manage we ask you to follow some simple steps, depending on the thing you are changing on the project's source:

**Small changes**

If you are building a fix to a typo or something related to documentation or even a simple code fix that hasn't a great impact on the project and doesn't modify test coverage you should:

1. Clone the repo locally;
2. Install needed tools;
3. Configure your database with the testing SPs provided.
4. Build the project with grunt;
5. Make your fix;
6. Rebuild the project to check if everything passes;
7. Run coverage.sh to see if test coverage remains 100%.
8. If it passes step 6 and 7 create a pull request directly to master branch, otherwise repeat step 5.

**Big changes**

If you are thinking in a new features, building some critical changes in code or anything related to the core of Sapphire's functionality you must follow this:

1. Clone the repo locally;
2. Check if your idea hasn't been implemented yet or isn't present on existent issues.
3. File an issue for your idea, don't do anything until the issue gets approved.
4. If you passed step 3 continue, otherwise know that your idea won't be merged to the project.
5. Build the project with grunt;
6. Implement your idea;
7. Document your idea based on [Codo](https://github.com/netzpirat/codo) syntax;
8. Make tests to your modifications and add it to the test folder;
9. Rebuild the project to check if everything passes;
10. Run coverage.sh to see if test coverage remains 100%.
11. If you pass all the steps you can make a pull request to the **dev** branch indicating the issue of step 3.

**Existent open issues**
If you see an open issue that hasn't been implemented yet and that has no one assigned to it you can comment on it asking for permission to implement it yourself.

If permission is granted you can follow the process described in **Big changes** directly from step 5.
